---
layout: post
title: "Welcome"
date:   2014-06-01 00:00:00
image: welcome.jpg
tags: welcome, misc
---

I figured it was only appropriate to begin my blog with a post explaining why I'm blogging in the first place. Whether you personally know me or not, I hope this will give you a bit more insight into my intentions.

I've always been fascinated by pop culture. As a child, I often rejected it in some regards, but as I went through High School, I began to become enamored with it – the top 40 music, network television, blockbuster movies, New York Times bestsellers.

When I was in college, I began to notice themes within all of these. Any half thought-out story had a bigger message laying beneath it. Sometimes those messages are made plain as day but other times they are a bit more subtle, laying just below the surface, hoping to be spotted.

That's what is fascinating about the arts: their ability to say so much without ever actually needing to articulate it.

These things are what I want to look at on this blog. So whenever I go see a new movie, catch a line of dialog on TV or see a message in a novel, I hope to discuss those on here.

That's not to say I won't have random things to say from time to time, but we'll discover those as we go.

I hope you'll join me in this. Follow me on <a href="http://twitter.com/ericrovtar">Twitter</a> to stay in the loop (or go old school and subscribe <a href="http://ericrovtar.com/feed.xml">via RSS</a>). Comment at the bottom of any post. I'd love to know what you think.

Thanks for stopping by.

– Eric