---
layout: post
title: "Control"
image: godzilla.jpg
tags: movies, godzilla, control
---

<div class="spoilers">
    <div class="spoilers__warning">
        Warning!
    </div><!--
 --><div class="spoilers__details">
        This post contains spoilers for Godzilla (2014)
    </div>
</div>

> “The arrogance of men is thinking nature 
> is in their control and not the other way 
> around. Let them fight.” – Dr. Ichiro
> Serizawa

 
Have you ever struggled to control something? I know I have. Time and time again, I would work to make sure I’d get the outcome I wanted in any given situation.
 
I was good at it too.
 
I could manipulate people in an effort to either make happen what I wanted to happen or gather information to gain leverage. After all, “knowledge is power,” is it not?
 
For 20-some years, I kept at it in vain, constantly having something outside of my control come along and knock the world off it’s orbit around me.
 
The theme of control is prevalent throughout the recent remake of Godzilla.
 
It starts when you first enter the quarantine zone formerly known as Janjira, Japan. 15 years have passed since society withdrew from the city after a major accident that starts the movie. The city has become desolate and overridden with vegetation. Buildings are crumbling as vines crack through foundations. Moss and mold grow rampant as ceilings leak with no one there to repair and maintain them.</p>
 
Without humanity there, nature has taken back control of what once was its.
 
Then there’s the real threat of the movie. With humanity facing two MUTOs (or Massive Unidentified Terrestrial Organisms), we try in vain to stop these creatures from destroying the world we’ve created. And when our first attempt fails, we try again. And again. And again.
 
But we can't control these beasts. Everything we have is useless against them.
 
In fact, every time humanity tries to assert control, we ultimately end up with a worse situation than before – like having to disarm a nuclear bomb we initially armed to attack the beasts only to lose control of it, thus requiring us to regain control of it just to disarm it. Or what about when we knew the MUTOs emitted electromagnetic pulses that disabled all electronic equipment in a wide radius, but still decided to attack them with every form of electronic transportation we own?
 
You see how the humans’ struggle to let go of control made each situation more complicated? So why wouldn’t they just let go?
 
Perhaps it’s for the same reason I struggle to give up control: when I give up control, I’m no longer in control. Profound, isn’t it?
 
Maybe it’s a bit deeper than that and involves trusting others rather than ourselves. We’ve all been let down at one point or another because someone didn’t follow through the way they promised.
 
What was it Dr. Serizawa said? “Let them fight.” He knew… He knew that this was a situation we couldn’t control, yet he also knew that there was something bigger in control to begin with. That’s why he could utter those words so decisively. He trusted in the bigger plan. A plan that he may not fully see, understand or have control of, but a plan that would help save humanity.
 
While all our military forces bumbled around, he watched it play out as Godzilla did as he proposed: brought order back to chaos.
 
It wasn’t the efforts of any human that stopped the MUTOs. No, it was a creature seemingly as destructive as the initial problem that came to humanity’s rescue. A creature we had no control over, but that we could trust to save the day because it was part of the plan.
 
Letting go of control is hard. Trusting is harder. But sometimes, that’s simply what we have to do.
 
Sure, it’s easy when you’re facing an end-of-the-world scenario, but it’s something we have to strive for even in our daily lives. We must recognize that we’re each a part of something greater. We must recognize what we have control over (our own actions, our words, our thoughts) and focus on controlling those for the betterment of ourselves and others.
 
Let God worry about the rest. Let the plan play out as it’s meant to. “Let them fight.”
 
