---
layout: post
title:  "The Movies of 2016"
basedOn: 
image:  "2016/01/22/picard_nexus2.jpg"
categories: general, movies
tags: 
published: false
---

Apologies for skipping last week. I went out of town unexpectedly and this post took longer than I planned on to write.

With that out of the way, I wanted to take a minute and look at what's ahead in 2016.

If you know me, you know I love movies. I see at least one a month on average, and 2016 is packed with some great ones. So here's a list of the ones I'm looking forward to.

#February

##Deadpool
###February 12
Superhero movies have always straddled an adult and young audience. While most of them still aren't appropriate for younger viewers, adults have been craving for a full-blown adult foray into the comic book universe. Enter Deadpool, Ryan Reynolds' latest attempt at a superhero movie.

I'll admit that I don't know a whole lot about Deadpool as a character beyond the fact that his portrayal in X-Men Origins: Wolverine was entirely wrong, which adds to my interest of this film. Can they right that wrong? It sure seems like Reynolds is doing his best to make that happen.

So far, the marketing has been smart and intriguing. It definitely makes me excited to check this film out Valentine's Day weekend. I mean, it's not like I had other plans.

#March

##Zootopia
###March 4
Disney Animation seems to be in a pattern of animated musical followed by animated comedy. While this may be a step away from Walt Disney's conception that music is a key part of storytelling, it's managed to allow some intriguing stories that would not otherwise exist, like Wreck It Ralph.

I know very little about Zootopia, but what I've seen captures Disney's unique ability to create a beautiful world. The clips they've shown so far also show a good mix of humor, so here's hoping for another classic.

##The Divergent Series: Allegiant
###March 18
Divergent was a book I really enjoyed because it investigated core concepts of our personalities and portrayed them in a unique perspective. The movie, however, didn't focus on this aspect much and suffered.

It's sequel, Insurgent, strayed further from the source material but was a better film because of it, if still not all that original.

Now we're at the final book of a trilogy, once again being split into two films. I enjoyed the final novel and it's almost more of a sequel than direct continuation. That allows these final two films to do something a bit different, so, while I will probably not see this one in theaters, I'll check it out when it's in Redbox.

##Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice
###March 25
Yes, it made the list. I've been pretty vocal that I don't expect a lot from this movie as there is still a bad taste in my mouth after Man of Steel.

Make no mistake, I'm sure I'll go to see it, so I hope it will be a well crafted tale that makes me want to invest in DC's new cinematic world.

My skepticism will remain until I see it, though, because studios that try to quickly build a movie universe don't usually do it well (see Amazing Spider-man 2).

Still, there's a chance Warner Bros. and DC will do this well and I'll hold out hope that they'll prove me wrong and that this isn't simply an attempt to quickly catch up to Marvel.

#April
##The Jungle Book
###April 15
???

##Ratchet & Clank
###April 29
???

#May

##Captain America: Civil War
###May 6
???

##X-Men: Apocalypse
###May 27
???

#June

##Finding Dory
###June 17
???

#July

##Star Trek Beyond
###July 22
I loved Star Trek long before I got into Star Wars and it holds a special place in my heart. The 2009 reboot scratched an itch after a hiatus from movies and TV.

Star Trek Into Darkness left me upset that the film makers didn't understand what makes Star Trek Star Trek.

Now J.J. Abrams isn't directing, so there's a chance for something different to happen, but the first trailer makes it seem like this is just another action movie using the Star Trek characters as pieces on some chessboard we've played on before.

Simon Pegg said he didn't like the first trailer, so I'm going to hope that the final movie takes us back to what Star Trek is really about: science fiction taking a look at modern issues in a philisophical way, focusing on the relationship of Kirk, Spock and McCoy.

#August

##Suicide Squad
###August 5
???

##Pete's Dragon
###August 12
???

#November

##Doctor Strange
###November 4
???

##Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them
###November 18
???

#December

##Rogue One: A Star Wars Story
###December 16
???